KeeperR sandbox game
GET KEEPERRL BY DONATING TO ANY WILDLIFE CHARITY!
Toggle navigation
Oct, 12
KeeperRL Alpha 31 is out!
KeeperRL Alpha 31 is released! The two major features brought by this update are the new Warlord game mode and moddable randomly generated maps. Check out the rundown below to get an idea about all the rest of the new stuff.

I’d like to thank everyone involved in crash testing this patch, sending bug reports and suggestions. Your help was invaluable!

As always, the update is already available on Steam, Itch.io, and Humble Store. You can also get the free version from here.


Gameplay
Warlord mode.
Content
New unlockable Adoxie adventurer (already known by some from the bonus mod).
Reworked Demon Den level.
Reworked all castles in the game.
Reworked the top and the lava z-levels using new the map generation system.
Two new hidden z-level locations.
Four new hidden top-level locations.
Reworked blacksmith house.
Angels have wings.
Modding
Moddable map generation.
Macros in all modded content.
Added an “Unlock” effect which unlocks arbitrary game content (currently only new adventurers and keepers supported).
Added an enemy-only z-level type.
Settlement size can be defined as a range instead of fixed number.
Working command line flags, such as for testing map layouts or generating villains now works on Windows.
The “Simple” item heading can be skipped and the quoted name can be used directly.
The “Chain” heading in various data can be skipped in favour of just listing the elements inside {} brackets.
Mods can now append to existing workshop lists.
Added itemsRemovedEffect to Furniture, which triggers when any items are removed from the tile.
All “Vec2” values, like sizes and coordinates must be now surrounded by {}.
One-element range can be entered as just a number, without the {}.
UI
Control-mode team leader can be changed by clicking on the team member icons in the top left.
The “lock/unlock” keys in minions equipment menu are highlighted for better visibility.
Creature choice menu (such as choosing absorption target or a new team leader) shows creature details when hovered using the mouse.
Fixes
Fixed the interface for entering player’s first name.
Fixed crash caused by a conquering villain being retired while the player was controlling a creature.
The game no longer freezes or crashes if a player-controlled creature dies due to poison during game initialization.
Added more assertions for OpenGL errors.
Fixed crash while browsing the bestiary.
Fixed (potential?) crash caused by enslaving own minion.
The game won’t crash if a building id is misspelled in a mod.
Game executable size on Steam has been reduced from 700mb to 140mb.
COMMENTS
Home › Forums › KeeperRL Alpha 31 is out!

Viewing 1 post (of 1 total)
Author
Posts
15th October 2020 at 10:41 am#12158
Captain Rage
Participant
A neat update! It’s very nice to see KeeperRL getting more content and polishing! Thank you so much! 🙂 Looking forward to more future updates!

Author
Posts
Viewing 1 post (of 1 total)
You must be logged in to reply to this topic.

Username: 
Password: 
 Keep me signed in
Log In
 LATEST NEWS

Email
Dec, 10
Incoming combat improvements
The turn-based 'roguelike' mode is an important and distinguishing feature of KeeperRL, yet something that still causes a lot of friction for players. The main problem is that... more

Oct, 18
KeeperRL price will increase to $20 USD on November 15th
KeeperRL has been in development since early 2013, and in a few weeks it will be seven years since the release of Alpha 1. When KeeperRL went on sale its initial price was $15,... more

Oct, 12
KeeperRL Alpha 31 is out!
KeeperRL Alpha 31 is released! The two major features brought by this update are the new Warlord game mode and moddable randomly generated maps. Check out the rundown below to... more

Sep, 24
Warlord mode and moddable map generation
I'm slowly wrapping up the Alpha 31 update, and while it won't be nearly as massive as the previous patch, it will bring two very interesting features. Warlord mode Having... more

Aug, 04
The future of KeeperRL
You might have noticed a bit of radio silence from me in the last couple of months, and this is because I've been somewhat burnt out after the six-month push for the Alpha 30... more

 
 PLAYERS SAID

There are no other games out there like KeeperRL. The game is a unique mixture of management, levelling, crafting, constructing, exploring, adventure etc. […] The possibility of interacting with other’s players monumental dungeons turn KeeperRL into one of the most promising games I’ve found.
dbvel
This game is amazing! It’s challenging, fun, unique, and exactly what you might expect it to be. For an early access game it’s incredible. And the thought that there’s more to come thrills me! I can’t wait to see how this awesome game will develop even more.
Avarti
Any time I touch another race, I get bent over like a cheap, overworked sex worker. I love sucking at this game so much.
DaavPuke
© 2015 KeeperRL. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of use