Keepers are always warlocks (at the time of writing, in Alpha 21)

There have been some ideas for other characters. Please list them below:

==Alternative keeper characters==
*Existing warlock
*Military leader
*Deceiver (Political negotiator)
*Necromancer (Different spells)
*Shadow (Stealthy, subtle, fast)

Please feel free to contribute to this page (which needs your help).

Thanks

Necromancer - A completely new way to play the game.

Necromancy was been suggested as its own magic school, but really should be its own class. 

A Necromancer would start with:
Healing Spell, Raise Corpse, Robe, Sword, 4 skeletons with the construction skill, 200 mana and basic sorcery. 

What would separate the necromancer from other classes is that he/she cannot recruit all minions like the keeper. Instead, he/she recruits minions by raising corpses. However, he/she can still have vampires join he/she.

The exclusive raise corpse spell is as follows 

Magic school: Necromancy
Special powers: Turns non-rotted, non-zombie corpse into a zombie. Turns a skeleton into an animated skeleton. The corpse type effects the minion added. For example, killing a human would reward a normal zombie when turned, but killing a dog would add a beast to the population. Different levels would have to be researched to raise the corpses/skeletons of bosses, legendary units, and other keepers. Will fail if population limit reached. Will fail if don't have a place to store corpse. (Like not having a bed for a unit)
Cooldown: 40 turns
Cost: 15 Mana per corpse, does not increase.
Concept: Grow an army of undead and rule both the realm of the living and dead!
Purpose in game: Allows the necromancer to grow his/her population. This is the only way they can recruit units, can't recruit minions like the Keeper.
Optional features: N/A
Discussion.

Under the necromancer, zombies would get a speed bonus and train faster to make them more viable as majority unit. 
Skeletons would also differ from zombies. They are less durable, faster, and have the construction and manufacturing skills. Stats would be slight better than the goblin and they would be able to equip items. 
The research tree would be the same as the keeper, except that basic sorcery would already be unlocked, and the other levels of a necromancy can be researched. 

Level 2 lowers the cool down of raise corpse, and allows one to raise multiple corpses at once.
Level 3 Lets you raise lesser villains
Level 4 lets you raise main villains. 

Buildings only available to the necromancer:
Hole: Can dig a hole outside for a zombie to sleep in. Functionally identical to a grave except it can't attract vampires.