Keepers are always warlocks (at the time of writing, in Alpha 21)

Please feel free to contribute to this page (which needs your help).

Thanks

There have been some ideas for other characters. Please list them below:

=Alternative keeper characters=

==Existing warlock==

==Rogue Knight==
A traitor who broke away from the human kingdoms, vowing revenge on those who dared cast doubt his way. Better base stats and iron starting equipment, poor at research and mana generation.

Visual: Would look like one of the human knights, except maybe dressed in dark plate and with a full helm of some variety.

==Deceiver (Political negotiator)==

==Shadow (Stealthy, subtle, fast)==

==Assassin (Stealthy, single target elimination)==

This character focuses on quick combat and single target elimination. Starting level 5, starts with stun, healing, escape, and invisibility spells. Also starts with stealth, disarm trap, archery, melee, sorcery, skills. Initial population limit is lowered by 5, and mana production is only at 70%. Throne only increases population by 5, and pigsty by 3. The population limit forces the player to rely on the keeper to do the majority of killing.
However, this character levels up by combat/training twice as fast. This character rewards risky play by using the keeper as a main battle unit instead of hiding in the dungeon. The downside is that keeper is the most powerful unit, there are no second chances when you die. 

Other:
Assassin's are wanted men, so all humanoid villains are more likely to trigger and attack your base (includes lesser villains). Kill or be killed!


Visual: Assassin unit looks like Keeper except without the beard, and has a black cloak. Enemy assassins have a white cloak.

==Necromancer (Different spells)==

Necromancer - A completely new way to play the game.

Necromancy was been suggested as its own magic school, but really should be its own class. 

A Necromancer would start with:
Healing Spell, Raise Corpse, Robe, Sword, 4 skeletons with the construction skill, 200 mana and basic sorcery. 

What would separate the necromancer from other classes is that he/she cannot recruit all minions like the keeper. Instead, he/she recruits minions by raising corpses. However, he/she can still have vampires join he/she normally.

The exclusive raise corpse spell is as follows 

Magic school: Necromancy
Special powers: Turns non-rotted, non-zombie corpse into a zombie. Turns a skeleton into an animated skeleton. The corpse type effects the minion added. For example, killing a human would reward a normal zombie when turned, but killing a dog would add a beast to the population. Different levels would have to be researched to raise the corpses/skeletons of bosses, legendary units, and other keepers. Will fail if population limit reached. Will fail if don't have a place to store corpse. (Like not having a bed for a unit)
Cooldown: 40 turns
Cost: 15 Mana per corpse, does not increase.
Concept: Grow an army of undead and rule both the realm of the living and dead!
Purpose in game: Allows the necromancer to grow his/her population. This is the only way they can recruit units, can't recruit minions like the Keeper.
Optional features: N/A
Discussion.

Under the necromancer, zombies would get a speed bonus and train faster to make them more viable as majority unit. 
Skeletons would also differ from zombies. They are less durable, faster, and have the construction and manufacturing skills. Stats would be slight better than the goblin and they would be able to equip items. Skeletons also wouldn't burn in sunlight. 
The research tree would be the same as the keeper, except with a few additions and that basic sorcery would already be unlocked. First, the other levels of a necromancy can be researched. 

Level 2 lowers the cool down of raise corpse, and allows one to raise multiple corpses at once.
Level 3 Lets you raise lesser villains
Level 4 lets you raise main villains. 

Secondly, the necromancer would have the darkness research trait/tree available to research. 
Level 1 -  Undead units resistant to sunlight. They won't burn but they lose one stat when in sunlight
Level 2 - Necromancer can create a large dark aura that protects units from sunlight. (Unlocks Spell, last for 200 turns, vampires can learn it)
Level 3 - Perpetual night. Cover the world in darkness (until death). Aggro's all lesser villains and main villains because they like the day. 

Buildings only available to the necromancer:
Hole: Can dig a hole outside for a zombie to sleep in. Functionally identical to a grave except it can't attract vampires.

Discussion: Can have the necromancer use imps instead of skeletons, but it ruins the flavor.

==Elementalist==


Second choice. Elementalist. Like the main villain in game. Aligned with knights and humans. Only uses mana to cast elementals, with each spell as a separate cool down. Spawns in a house, with a library and bed, a bit of gold, and first aid kits, and alchemy bench. Can't craft items. Gets mana by studying and some other source. Possibly using mana to spawn shard pilliars that regenerate mana over time. 

Elements are air, water, earth, fire. Elemental minions can't train to level up. 

Skill tree progression:
Level 1 (Fusion) Fuse two elementals to create a stronger elemental. For example, air and water is storm. Fire and Earth is iron. Air and fire is ice. Earth and water is slime. 
Level 2 (Fusion) Fuse three elementals to create even stronger unit.
Level 3 (Fusion) Fuse the elements with yourself to become super powerful. Regrow limbs, gain 4 spells (Fireblast, wave, air bolt, earth quake)

Sorcery Levels also available. 
Basic Alchemy unlocked at start. 

Discussion: Dynamic world. Enemies attack allies and you are called to defend them. For ex, dark elves verse elves.